

\begin{figure}[H]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.7\linewidth]{./chapters/exp1/methodology4.png}
  \caption{Fourth portion of the flowchart from Figure \ref{fig:method} being 
           described in this section.}
\end{figure}

\todo[inline]{The methods in this work have high variance, and so
regularization is necessary, but hyperparameter optimization left me with high
variance models, so this needs to be discussed somewhere. some discussion of 
feature number might also be useful w results.}

The prediction performance is measured by the balanced accuracy of the reactor
type classification or the absolute and/or relative error of the regression
cases (burnup, \gls{U235} enrichment, cooling time), which were introduced in
Section \ref{sec:testerr}.  These performance metrics for all four prediction
types and all six detectors are compared across the three algorithms used:
\textit{k}-nearest neighbors (denoted in plots as \textit{kNN}), decision trees
(denoted in plots as \textit{Dec Tree} or \textit{DTree}), and \gls{MLL}
calculations.  \todo[inline]{how much gets repeated from ch 3, e.g.,
reexplaining balanced accuracy, confusion matrices, etc?}

\begin{figure}[!htb]
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.5\linewidth]{./chapters/exp2/exp2_plot_description.png}
  \caption{Demonstration of plots being used to evaluate the results.}
  \label{fig:detdemo}
\end{figure}

In order to evaluate the prediction performace degradation with decreasing
information quality via detector energy resolution, a basic plot format is
presented, pictured in Figure \ref{fig:detdemo}.  There are three plots for
each prediction parameter, corresponding to the three energy window lists:
auto, short, and long.  The \textit{y}-axis is always oriented so that higher
levels indicate better performance, so is plotted as accuracy score or negative
error.  

The \textit{x}-axis is oriented so that reduced information travels rightward.
First, the 29 nuclide mass training set is included for comparison, followed by
the 32 nuclide activity training set, which is intended to represent a full
knowledge scenario of nuclide activities before gamma detection. These are both
the same for all three energy window lists.  The 7 \& 12 nuclide activities are
next, and they represent the full knowledge scenario for the post-gamma
detection short and long energy window lists, respectively.  The 12 nuclide
activity training set is chosen to be used for the auto energy window list
plots.  All of the nuclide mass/nuclide activity training sets are predicted
with a 1\% training set error applied.  Last, the six detectors are in order of
decreasing detector energy resolution. Thus, for each prediction parameter,
there are three plots for each energy window list with these nine
\textit{x}-axis categories. 

The last component of Figure \ref{fig:detdemo} is the red horizontal line.  It
represents a minimum acceptable performance, interpreted from the results in
Section \ref{sec:eval1}. It is drawn at the level of the worst performing
aglorithm at 20\% training set error.  This is therefore somewhat arbitrary,
but if the detectors cannot predict above this level, it means that a
detector-based training set with only counting error cannot reach the level of
performance of 20\% error in a training set based on an assay of 29 nuclide
masses.

\subsection{Reactor Type Classification}
\input{chapters/exp2/eval_rxtr}
\label{sec:exp2_rxtr}

\subsection{Regression Results}
\input{chapters/exp2/eval_reg}

